But before you all agreed to that plan, which I would of course go along with without a fight, can I just explain a little of my people and the predicament we’re in.” His huge skull spun slowly a little to the left and right before continuing.

“We’re called Dray. We had a home once. But that changed when the rebel faction called the Draycore began wiping the populations of peaceful planets out of existence. As humans I imagine this is not going to be a struggle for you to understand, you’ve been invading and destroying peaceful settlements for thousands of years - in the name of resource collection and protection.” 

“The Draycore are not so bothered about resources as you are here on Earth, our planet and surrounding meteors provide more than enough material for any project that we could think of. The Draycore is bothered more, by any planet that it considers a possible threat to the Dray mother-world, and doles out heavy punishment to any such planet. Now you might be thinking that this sounds reasonable, right? That this would almost make sense? That you don’t want people attacking you so you might as well throw the first and last punch? Well then you’d probably like the way they do things over there.”

“However, the Dray mother-world that I mentioned was the reason for them searching for and removing these possible threats didn’t take too kindly to their name being used for this purpose. They banished the Draycore - with the promise that they will never be allowed to return to the mother-world. So, now you just have the Draycore floating about with weapons that can level planets, lost and alone, never allowed to go home. That’d be the end of the story right? Erm, not so much. After a decade - by your measure - of joyous destruction of a series of planets not too far from the home-world they were set upon by an army of Dray from the mother-world.”

“Beaten and humiliation the Draycore ship moved out from that corner of the galaxy as quickly as it could. It then spent the next two centuries searching for a new home and for a way to return, with or without the permission of the mother-worlders.”